README.md, before:

# solidus_shipstation

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation)

This gem integrates [ShipStation](http://www.shipstation.com) with [Solidus](http://solidus.io). It
enables ShipStation to pull shipments from the system and update tracking numbers.

This integration is a fork of [spree_shipstation](https://github.com/DynamoMTL/spree_shipstation)
that adds Solidus and Rails 4.2+ compatibility.

## Installation

Add solidus_shipstation to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'solidus_shipstation', github: 'solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation'
```

Bundle your dependencies and run the installation generator:

```shell
bin/rails generate solidus_shipstation:install
```

## Configuration

### Configuring solidus_shipstation

Configure your ShipStation integration:

```ruby
# config/initializers/solidus_shipstation.rb

SolidusShipstation.configure do |config|
  # Choose between Grams, Ounces or Pounds.
  config.weight_units = "Grams"

  # ShipStation expects the endpoint to be protected by HTTP Basic Auth.
  # Set the username and password you desire for ShipStation to use.
  config.username = "smoking_jay_cutler"
  config.password = "my-awesome-password"

  # Capture payment when ShipStation notifies a shipping label creation.
  # Set this to `true` and `Spree::Configrequire_payment_to_ship` to `false` if you
  # want to charge your customers at the time of shipment.
  config.capture_at_notification = false
end
```

You may also need to configure some options of your Solidus store:

```ruby
# config/initializers/solidus_shipstation.rb
Spree.config do |config|
  # Set to false if you're not using auto_capture (defaults to true).
  config.require_payment_to_ship = true

  # Set to false if you're not using inventory tracking features (defaults to true).
  config.track_inventory_levels = true
end
```

### Configuring ShipStation

To configure or create a ShipStation store, go to **Settings** -> **Stores** -> **Add Store**, then
scroll down and choose the **Custom Store** option.

Enter the following details:

- **Username**: the username defined in your config.
- **Password**: the password defined in your config.
- **URL to custom page**: `https://yourdomain.com/shipstation.xml`.

There are five shipment states for an order (= shipment) in ShipStation. These states do not
necessarily align with Solidus, but you can configure ShipStation to create a mapping for your
specific needs. Here's the default mapping:

ShipStation description | ShipStation status | Solidus status
------------------------|--------------------|---------------
Awaiting Payment        | `unpaid`           | `pending`
Awaiting Shipment       | `paid`             | `ready`
Shipped                 | `shipped`          | `shipped`
Cancelled               | `cancelled`        | `cancelled`
On-Hold                 | `on-hold`          | `pending`

## Usage

There's nothing you need to do. Once properly configured, the integration just works!

## Gotchas

There are a few gotchas you need to be aware of:

- If you change the shipping method of an order in ShipStation, the change will not be reflected in
  Solidus and the tracking link might not work properly.
- When `shipstation_capture_at_notification` is enabled, any errors during payment capture will
  prevent the update of the shipment's tracking number.

## Development

### Testing the extension

First bundle your dependencies, then run `bin/rake`. `bin/rake` will default to building the dummy
app if it does not exist, then it will run specs. The dummy app can be regenerated by using
`bin/rake extension:test_app`.

```shell
bin/rake
```

To run [Rubocop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop) static code analysis run

```shell
bundle exec rubocop
```

When testing your application's integration with this extension you may use its factories.
Simply add this require statement to your spec_helper:

```ruby
require 'solidus_shipstation/factories'
```

### Running the sandbox

To run this extension in a sandboxed Solidus application, you can run `bin/sandbox`. The path for
the sandbox app is `./sandbox` and `bin/rails` will forward any Rails commands to
`sandbox/bin/rails`.

Here's an example:

```
$ bin/rails server
=> Booting Puma
=> Rails 6.0.2.1 application starting in development
* Listening on tcp://127.0.0.1:3000
Use Ctrl-C to stop
```

### Updating the changelog

Before and after releases the changelog should be updated to reflect the up-to-date status of
the project:

```shell
bin/rake changelog
git add CHANGELOG.md
git commit -m "Update the changelog"
```

### Releasing new versions

Your new extension version can be released using `gem-release` like this:

```shell
bundle exec gem bump -v 1.6.0
bin/rake changelog
git commit -a --amend
git push
bundle exec gem release
```

## License

Copyright (c) 2013 Boomer Digital, released under the New BSD License.

Commit message:

Add configuration to export canceled shipments
The XML exported to ShipStation didn't consider the canceled shipments.
It prevented the shipments' updates to the canceled status on the platform.
This adds a configuration to expose these shipments in the XML.

README.md, after:

# solidus_shipstation

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation)

This gem integrates [ShipStation](http://www.shipstation.com) with [Solidus](http://solidus.io). It
enables ShipStation to pull shipments from the system and update tracking numbers.

This integration is a fork of [spree_shipstation](https://github.com/DynamoMTL/spree_shipstation)
that adds Solidus and Rails 4.2+ compatibility.

## Installation

Add solidus_shipstation to your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'solidus_shipstation', github: 'solidusio-contrib/solidus_shipstation'
```

Bundle your dependencies and run the installation generator:

```shell
bin/rails generate solidus_shipstation:install
```

## Configuration

### Configuring solidus_shipstation

Configure your ShipStation integration:

```ruby
# config/initializers/solidus_shipstation.rb

SolidusShipstation.configure do |config|
  # Choose between Grams, Ounces or Pounds.
  config.weight_units = "Grams"

  # ShipStation expects the endpoint to be protected by HTTP Basic Auth.
  # Set the username and password you desire for ShipStation to use.
  config.username = "smoking_jay_cutler"
  config.password = "my-awesome-password"

  # Capture payment when ShipStation notifies a shipping label creation.
  # Set this to `true` and `Spree::Configrequire_payment_to_ship` to `false` if you
  # want to charge your customers at the time of shipment.
  config.capture_at_notification = false

  # Export canceled shipments to ShipStation
  # Set this to `true` if you want canceled shipments included in the endpoint.
  config.export_canceled_shipments = false
end
```

You may also need to configure some options of your Solidus store:

```ruby
# config/initializers/solidus_shipstation.rb
Spree.config do |config|
  # Set to false if you're not using auto_capture (defaults to true).
  config.require_payment_to_ship = true

  # Set to false if you're not using inventory tracking features (defaults to true).
  config.track_inventory_levels = true
end
```

### Configuring ShipStation

To configure or create a ShipStation store, go to **Settings** -> **Stores** -> **Add Store**, then
scroll down and choose the **Custom Store** option.

Enter the following details:

- **Username**: the username defined in your config.
- **Password**: the password defined in your config.
- **URL to custom page**: `https://yourdomain.com/shipstation.xml`.

There are five shipment states for an order (= shipment) in ShipStation. These states do not
necessarily align with Solidus, but you can configure ShipStation to create a mapping for your
specific needs. Here's the default mapping:

ShipStation description | ShipStation status | Solidus status
------------------------|--------------------|---------------
Awaiting Payment        | `unpaid`           | `pending`
Awaiting Shipment       | `paid`             | `ready`
Shipped                 | `shipped`          | `shipped`
Cancelled               | `cancelled`        | `cancelled`
On-Hold                 | `on-hold`          | `pending`

## Usage

There's nothing you need to do. Once properly configured, the integration just works!

## Gotchas

There are a few gotchas you need to be aware of:

- If you change the shipping method of an order in ShipStation, the change will not be reflected in
  Solidus and the tracking link might not work properly.
- When `shipstation_capture_at_notification` is enabled, any errors during payment capture will
  prevent the update of the shipment's tracking number.

## Development

### Testing the extension

First bundle your dependencies, then run `bin/rake`. `bin/rake` will default to building the dummy
app if it does not exist, then it will run specs. The dummy app can be regenerated by using
`bin/rake extension:test_app`.

```shell
bin/rake
```

To run [Rubocop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop) static code analysis run

```shell
bundle exec rubocop
```

When testing your application's integration with this extension you may use its factories.
Simply add this require statement to your spec_helper:

```ruby
require 'solidus_shipstation/factories'
```

### Running the sandbox

To run this extension in a sandboxed Solidus application, you can run `bin/sandbox`. The path for
the sandbox app is `./sandbox` and `bin/rails` will forward any Rails commands to
`sandbox/bin/rails`.

Here's an example:

```
$ bin/rails server
=> Booting Puma
=> Rails 6.0.2.1 application starting in development
* Listening on tcp://127.0.0.1:3000
Use Ctrl-C to stop
```

### Updating the changelog

Before and after releases the changelog should be updated to reflect the up-to-date status of
the project:

```shell
bin/rake changelog
git add CHANGELOG.md
git commit -m "Update the changelog"
```

### Releasing new versions

Your new extension version can be released using `gem-release` like this:

```shell
bundle exec gem bump -v 1.6.0
bin/rake changelog
git commit -a --amend
git push
bundle exec gem release
```

## License

Copyright (c) 2013 Boomer Digital, released under the New BSD License.
